User Guide
__________


Core guides
-----------

These user guides provide detailed explanation of some of the core
concepts in HoloViews:

* `Annotating your Data <Annotating_Data.html>`_
  How to wrap your data in Element and annotate it with additional
  metadata to explore and visualize it effectively.

* `Composing Elements <Composing_Elements.html>`_
  Composing your wrapped data into ``Overlay`` and ``Layout``
  collections with the ``+`` and ``*`` operators.

* `Customizing Plots <Customizing_Plots.html>`_
  Applying plot, style and normalization options to control the look
  and feel of the plotting.

* `Dimensioned Containers <Dimensioned_Containers.html>`_
  Declaring multi-dimensional containers to animate and facet your
  data flexibly. Learn about ``HoloMap``, ``NdOverlay``, ``GridSpace``
  and ``NdLayout`` types and how to use them effectively with the
  corresponding ``.layout``, ``.overlay`` and ``.grid`` method.

* `Building Composite Objects <Building_Composite_Objects.html>`_
  How to build and work with complex composite objects.

* `Live Data <Live_Data.html>`_
  Introducing ``DynamicMap`` to lazily declare data and generate
  complex interactive visualizations.

* `Tabular Datasets <Tabular_Datasets.html>`_
  Loading and wrapping tabular datasets in HoloViews using NumPy,
  pandas and dask and flexibly exploring the dataset using selection,
  grouping and aggregation.

* `Gridded Datasets <Gridded_Datasets.html>`_
  Loading and wrapping gridded dataset in HoloViews using NumPy and
  XArray to flexibly explore and visualize labelled n-dimensional
  arrays.

* `Indexing and Selecting Data <Indexing_and_Selecting_Data.html>`_
  Effectively indexing and selecting subsets of the data on the
  different HoloViews datastructures.

* `Transforming Elements <Transforming_Elements.html>`_
  Applying and declaring ``Operations`` that transform your allowing
  you to define the building blocks of a data analysis pipeline and
  quickly explore and visualize the effect of different parameters on
  your data.

* `Responding to Events <Responding_to_Events.html>`_
  Effectively using ``Streams`` to dynamically control and drive your
  visualizations by responding to user defined events such as custom
  widgets or from the commandline or notebook.

* `Custom Interactivity <Custom_Interactivity.html>`_
  Using linked ``Streams`` to respond to events generated by
  interacting with a bokeh plot, e.g. by responding to mouse position,
  mouse taps, selections or the current axis range.

* `Data Processing Pipelines <Data_Pipelines.html>`_
  Chaining different operations to build complex and lazy data
  analysis pipelines, which can drive interactive plots in a notebook
  or in a deployed dashboard.

* `Working with large data <Large_Data.html>`_
  Leveraging datashader support in HoloViews to effectively and
  interactively explore and visualize millions or even billions of
  datapoints.


Supplementary guides
--------------------

These guides provide detail about specific additional features in HoloViews:

* `Plotting with Bokeh <Plotting_with_Bokeh.html>`_
  The basics of plotting with bokeh including details about plot tools
  and backend specific styling options and working with bokeh models
  more directly.

* `Deploying Bokeh Apps <Deploying_Bokeh_Apps.html>`_
  Instructions on how to declare and deploy bokeh apps using HoloViews
  in various scenarios, e.g. from scripts, from the commandline and
  within the notebook.

* `Plotting with matplotlib <Plotting_with_Matplotlib.html>`_
  The basics of plotting with matplotlib highlighting core differences
  in styling and controlling the layout of matplotlib figures.

* `Plotting with plotly <Plotting_with_Plotly.html>`_
  The basics of plotting with plotly focusing on 3D plotting, one of
  the main strengths of plotly.

* `Working with renderers and plots <Plots_and_Renderers.html>`_
  Using HoloViews Renderer and Plot classes directly to access and
  manipulate your visualizations directly.

* `Exporting and Archiving <Exporting_and_Archiving.html>`_
  Using HoloViews to archive both your data and visualization from the
  notebook.

* `Continuous Coordinates <Continuous_Coordinates.html>`_ Details on
  how continuous coordinates are handled in HoloViews specifically
  focusing on the difference between ``Image`` and other ``Raster`` types.


.. toctree::
    :titlesonly:
    :hidden:
    :maxdepth: 2

    Annotating your Data <Annotating_Data>
    Composing Elements <Composing_Elements>
    Customizing Plots <Customizing_Plots>
    Dimensioned Containers <Dimensioned_Containers>
    Building Composite Objects <Building_Composite_Objects>
    Live Data <Live_Data>
    Tabular Datasets <Tabular_Datasets>
    Gridded Datasets <Gridded_Datasets>
    Indexing and Selecting Data <Indexing_and_Selecting_Data>
    Transforming Elements <Transforming_Elements>
    Responding to Events <Responding_to_Events>
    Custom Interactivity <Custom_Interactivity>
    Data Processing Pipelines <Data_Pipelines>
    Working with large data <Large_Data>
    Plotting with Bokeh <Plotting_with_Bokeh>
    Deploying Bokeh Apps <Deploying_Bokeh_Apps>
    Plotting with matplotlib <Plotting_with_Matplotlib>
    Plotting with plotly <Plotting_with_Plotly>
    Working with Plot and Renderers <Plots_and_Renderers>
    Exporting and Archiving <Exporting_and_Archiving>
    Continuous Coordinates <Continuous_Coordinates>
